# hosting this yourself
Want to host your own instance of Maximilian?
You can set one up in just a few minutes.

First, ensure your system meets these requirements:
- at least 2gb of RAM
- 2gb free hard drive space (10gb for music)
- Working Internet connection (around 10mbps download for music)
- Any version of Linux that supports Python 3.8+ (recommended: latest Ubuntu LTS version)
- WSL (if on Windows)

Start by downloading the source code in this repository.  I recommend cloning the repository using `git clone https://github.com/tk421bsod/maximilian`.

Then, run the setup script (`bash setup.sh`) and follow the prompts it gives you.
It'll install almost everything Maximilian needs (python, mariadb, pip, python packages, etc) and set them up.

Now you're ready to run Maximilian. Just run `python3 main.py`.
If you see an "Invalid syntax" error when starting Maximilian, make sure you're running it on Python 3.8 or above. 
On some older versions of Linux you might need to compile a newer version of Python yourself.

If you get some weird output and can't see it anymore, check the log file. It's located in `./logs/maximilian-<date>.log`.

# optional packages
Want to get prettier output in the console?
Run `pip3 install -r requirements-extra.txt`.

# additional command line arguments 

To enable special debugging commands through an extension called `jishaku` (https://github.com/Gorialis/jishaku), run `main.py` with `--enablejsk`.
While Jishaku is an invaluable tool for debugging and development, it can be very dangerous. If your Discord account is compromised, an attacker can have almost complete access to your computer through Jishaku.
The first time you run Maximilian with Jishaku enabled and a logging level at or below `-w`, startup will be temporarily paused and you'll see a warning with this same information.
Want to see the warning again later? Remove the `jsk_used` line from `config`.
I recommend enabling two factor authentication for your Discord account before using Jishaku.

If you're hosting the database on another computer, you'll need to run `main.py` with `--ip <database_ip>`, replacing `<database_ip>` with the IP address of your database.

To skip loading a specific extension, use the `--noload` argument. Follow it up with the names of the extensions you don't want loaded. for example, `python3 main.py --noload cogs.userinfo` will make Maximilian not load the userinfo extension.

You can specify a logging level (which filters the information Maximilian outputs) through command line arguments after `main.py`; the logging levels are -q (disables logging), -e (errors only), -w (warnings + errors, default), -i (warnings + errors + info, recommended), -v (warnings + errors + info + debugging info).
It defaults to -w if nothing's specified.
For example, `python3 main.py -i` will start Maximilian with the INFO logging level.
I recommend using `-i` as it outputs some information you wouldn't see at other logging levels.

Using `-v` will result in larger log file sizes and much more output to the console, especially on the first run.
If you choose to use it, you'll see a small warning on startup.

Run main.py with `--help` to view more information on valid arguments.

# can I run Maximilian on Windows?
At the moment, no.
I'm considering it and may make it an option in the future.

# i wanna contribute, wtf is up with all these files?
Maximilian is broken up into a number of different Python modules to make development and maintenance easier.
Each module handles some specific functionality.

Any modules in the root directory are what the bot calls 'required' modules. They provide a set of APIs for other modules to call into.
Deleting or breaking one of these modules will prevent Maximilian from functioning as all of these are interdependent to some degree.

Here's what each one does:
* main.py - handles some early initialization, launches Maximilian
* settings.py - an extremely simple API for adding setting toggles to a module
* helpcommand.py - a custom help command
* errorhandling.py - command error handling utilities
* core.py - various utility commands, hooks for on_message, guild_join, and guild_remove, a couple helper methods used in async contexts
* db.py - database interface
* common.py - some helper methods that are used outside of async contexts
* updater.py - handles updating Maximilian
* startup.py - handles a couple tasks only performed during startup
* base.py - handles most tasks besides early initialization

There are also a couple different directories:
* cogs - stores 'optional' modules that contain commands
* logs - stores log files, labeled with date started
* languages - stores files used by the translation subsystem, required for Maximilian to start
* songcache - cache for files generated by the music module
* web - assorted website files

Anything in the 'cogs' directory is what the bot calls 'optional' modules.
As the name implies, you can delete or break these without much effect besides a loss of their functionality.
These modules make up the majority of Maximilian's features.

They are:
* config.py - calls into settings.py to allow for changing settings
* music.py - some music features
* reactionroles.py - gives users roles on reactions
* misc.py - a few fun commands that don't really fit into a category
* prefixes.py - provides per-server customizable prefixes
* reminders.py - reminders and todo lists
* responses.py - 'custom commands': say something, get a response
* userinfo.py - provides information about users

The rest of the files in the root directory are either utilities or data.
Some are automatically generated by various tools.

These files are not automatically generated:
* requirements.txt - a list of dependencies. `pip` uses this to know what packages to install.
* requirements-extra.txt - some extra dependencies (not required, but definitely nice to have!)
* HOSTING.md - some info on hosting / contributing and also the file you're currently reading ;)
* README.md - one line description of the bot, branch info, 1.0 patch notes
* setup.sh - handles setting up Maximilian and doing some common tasks

And now for the automatically generated files:

`config` is generated by setup.sh and it contains configuration data for Maximilian. 
This data includes:
* The token to use
* Database password
* The owner's account ID
* Main color (theme_color)
* etc.
Editing this file or quitting setup.sh before it is finished can break Maximilian. 
If Maximilian says something is missing, try running setup.sh again, filling in the necessary details when prompted.
Do not share this file with anyone. It could give someone access to your bot's account.
